Ping Monitoring (#1974)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Reference/DataMiner_Tools/Ping_Monitoring/Installing_Ping_Monitoring.md

---
uid: Installing_Ping_Monitoring
---

# Installing the Ping Monitoring tool

## Prerequisites

- DataMiner version 10.3.9 [CU2] or higher

  > [!IMPORTANT]
  > The DataMiner Ping Monitoring tool was tested to be compatible with DataMiner versions 10.3.9 [CU2] and higher. We do not recommend using an older version as this may lead to unexpected issues.

- A DataMiner System [connected to dataminer.services](xref:Connecting_your_DataMiner_System_to_the_cloud)

- The [*Generic Ping* connector](https://catalog.dataminer.services/result/driver/530)

  > [!TIP]
  > We recommend using Generic Ping version 3.1.2.11 or higher. See [Deploying a DataMiner connector to your system](xref:Deploying_A_DataMiner_Connector_to_your_system).

- At least one Generic Ping element within your DMS that is configured with one or multiple destinations

  > [!TIP]
  >
  > - For more information about configuring destinations, consult the [Generic Ping connector help](https://catalog.dataminer.services/result/driver/530).
  > - See also: [Working with elements in DataMiner](xref:Element_cards)

> - Make sure the following soft-launch options are enabled:

Reviewer: Perhaps we should adjust this a bit to make it more future-proof. For instance:

```suggestion
- Depending on your DataMiner version, you may need to enable the following soft-launch options:
```

Reviewer 2: The following soft-launch options are needed when using DataMiner version 10.3.9 [CU2]. Future versions of DataMiner may include the necessary features. You can check the release status of these options here https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Reference/Soft-launch_options/Overview_of_Soft_Launch_Options.html

  - [GenericInterface](xref:Overview_of_Soft_Launch_Options#genericinterface)

  - [ReportsAndDashboardsDynamicVisuals](xref:Overview_of_Soft_Launch_Options#reportsanddashboardsdynamicvisuals)

  - [ReportsAndDashboardsButton](xref:Overview_of_Soft_Launch_Options#reportsanddashboardsbutton)

  > [!TIP]
  > See [Activating soft-launch options](xref:Activating_Soft_Launch_Options).

## Deploying the Ping Monitoring tool

1. Look up the [*Ping Monitoring* package](https://catalog.dataminer.services/catalog/4992) in the DataMiner Catalog.

1. Click the *Deploy* button.

   > [!NOTE]

>    > The *Deploy* button is only available if your organization has a license for the displayed package. Otherwise, it is grayed out and displays the text "No License". In that case, to be able to deploy the package, contact <licensing@skyline.be>.

Author: Does the Ping Monitoring package require a license, @migbarq?
